POSITIONS
Three positions on each side, front, middle, and back.
Unless stated otherwise, abilities will be forced to pick an enemy in the front to target.
Positions can be affected by certain spells, such as a position receiving healing or receiving a slow debuff.
Certain abilities can only be used from certain points on the battlefield.
Some abilities can have a range, such as only being able to hit enemies two spaces ahead of you - for example, say you’re in the middle, you’d only be able to hit people in the frontline, or if you’re in the back, you would be too far for the ability to be used.

SPEED AND PRIORITY
The speed of all active members on a team will be added up. The higher overall number decides which team has their fastest player - or player with priority - goes first, then the rest of the players will go in order of speed. If a tie occurs, the person on the faster team goes first, and then it alternates. If there’s a tie between two or more people on the same team, it will be random as to who goes first the first time, but then it will alternate between them.
Certain moves will have priority over others, which will be directly stated. Priority moves will ignore speed except in ties with priority moves. Positive priority will typically always go first or second, while negative will typically go last.
Speed has an effect on the amount of time you have to dodge an attack. The limit for the amount of time a character has to dodge will never exceed 2.5 seconds, but can only reach that point under very specific circumstances.

DODGING
Most attacks can be dodged. However, it is not up to RNG.
Only non-tank player characters can dodge attacks manually, but some enemies may have something similar based on their abilities.
Players will be able to dodge an attack right before it hits them, and the window to press a button to dodge it will largely depend on the attack and the target’s speed.
Dodge time is increased by 5% for every 10 bonus speed (not default speed), up to a max of a 25% increase.
Most default enemy attacks will have .75 seconds of dodge time.
Consistent dodging on the same turn will decrease the amount of time you have to dodge by 10% of the original number, up to a 40% decrease in bonus dodge time. If a dodge time is at .5 seconds or lower, it will not decrease.
If the player dodges the attack at the last moment right before it hits them, 
Getting hit will cause players to lose their bonus dodge time, but their speed bonuses will not be affected unless stated otherwise by the ability.
Special Note: If a player spams the dodge button before they’re actually prompted to press it such as right before the window for them to dodge actually begins, they should no longer be able to dodge that specific ability. This will likely be shown as the character’s dodging animation being played but no attack being dodged.

BLOCKING
Most attacks can be blocked. However, it is not up to RNG.
Only tank player characters can block attacks manually, but some enemies may have something similar based on their abilities.
Players will be able to block an attack before it hits them, and will take reduced damage based on their current resistances.
Blocking at the last moment before the attack hits them will result in them taking no damage. 
Consistent blocking on the same turn will decrease the damage blocked by 15%, down to 10% damage blocked.


HEALING AND REVIVES
Healing abilities - unless stated to have a revive effect - will not be able to heal downed teammates. Likewise, reviving abilities will not work on teammates who are not downed.
Teammates can be healed an infinite amount of times, but can only be revived twice in a battle.
Teammates will not die forever if they are downed twice, but will need to be revived at a hospital (temporary name).
The second time a teammate is revived, they are revived with 50% less health and receive 50% healing for 2 turns.

ABILITIES
Usually based off of a unique resource.
Abilities have infinite uses.
Abilities have cooldowns.
While technically classified as an ability, your weapon attack has no cooldown and gives you extra resources.
Every player and some enemies - usually only bosses - will have passive abilities that they will be focused around.

ABILITY AND SPELL INTERACTIONS
Abilities and spells can be weakened or boosted by equipment, current area, the elements of your enemies, and other spells and abilities.
Enemies will take less damage from certain elements, while taking more from others.
Players will not typically take more damage from a certain element and will have resistances from their equipment, although there are some exceptions.
